- [Instructor] Now that we have learned the benefits
and highlights of Spring Events,
let's take them into practice
by creating our first Application Event.
Before we dive into the code,
let me introduce you to the application
we will be refactoring and extending throughout this course.
Our application is an e-commerce system
that contains orders, products, and customers.
Through our journey, we will be refactoring existing
and adding new functionalities by paying close attention
to architectural impact, and pros and cons of each approach.
In this lesson, the use case we will be focusing on
is the customer registration.
Imagine a customer has initiated registration,
such a use case would persist a customer in the database,
trigger an email service,
maybe invoke external CRM registration system,
and many other things.
Let's analyze how the simple case of persisting a customer
and sending an email would be reflected in the code.
Make sure you have downloaded the exercise files,
unzip the project files,
and open it in the IDE of your choice,
either from the terminal or from Java IDE.
Immediately after opening the project,
IntelliJ will pull all the Maven dependencies.
Make sure that you have the correct Java version installed.
You can check it by opening File, Project Structure.
Under Project SDK, you should see Java 15.
Our customer and email service
are split into two different packages.
You can also imagine those could live
in separate Maven modules.
Both customer and email service are Spring Beans.
In a typical imperative style,
our CustomerService would call CustomerRepository
to store customer in database,
and would trigger an EmailService.
The fact that customerService has to know
about sending emails has a couple of consequences,
and pros and cons.
Very obvious advantage is that by looking at the code,
we can understand the entire use case.
Even if there are other use cases coupled
with customer registration, we know we need to add it here.
However, imagine adding promotion for a new customer
or updating some external systems.
We not only need to provide an email service,
but also all other functionalities that are coming up
and centered around customer registration.
We might argue,
why should the customer registration process need to know
about all those first functionalities
that are centered around it?
This creates more cyclic dependencies,
and violates the single responsibility principle.
Testing becomes much harder as we might need
to mock all different dependencies.
What will this look like in our system?
Let's create our first event
by creating a new class in the Customer package.
We will call it CustomerRegisteredEvent.
We can extend an application event base class,
however, since Spring version 4.2,
this is no longer required, so we can leave it empty.
As part of our event, we want to make sure it contains
the Customer object.
For getters, setters, and constructors,
we can add annotation from project lombok.
Now in our CustomerService, in order to publish an event,
we just need to inject ApplicationEventPublisher Bean.
And in our business logic,
we can now call publisher.publishevent.
And as an argument provide CustomerRegisteredEvent together
with the customer.
Since we migrated to events,
we can remove dependencies to emailService.
In the next lesson, we will proceed by implementing listener
for CustomerRegisteredEvent.